---
date: "2023-07-18"
spoiler: ""
title: "Opinions on running software projects."
url: "/notes/opinions"
---

# Opinions on running software projects

Don’t try to parallelize the work too early. Instead, use pair-programming or
ensemble-programming sessions to create a shared understanding of the
foundational concepts of the project.

Embrace some early duplication. Use the first few weeks to explore the problem
space and try different approaches. Removing duplication is more straightforward
than dealing with a flawed architecture.

Trunk-based deployment and continuous deployment. Optimize for shorter feedback
loops.

Tests. Use high-level, acceptance-like tests to drive your first few features.
That will ensure your architecture is designed with testability in mind. Then,
keep favoring higher-level tests for a few more cycles (for example, try writing
more integration tests than unit tests). Tests of a higher granularity usually
provide more confidence but can be slow. Use the right balance (but favor
confidence vs. speed -it should always be possible to optimize test performance
later).

Don’t overuse feature flags. There are other ways to deploy incremental changes.
Duplication is often a cursed word in software development, but it may avoid
many headaches if used with caution.

When writing documentation, prefer the following types: how-to guides to perform
specific tasks on the project (how to execute a background job, how to log
analytics events) and architecture decision records (ADRs), so future engineers
can understand the WHY of the existing design decisions.

Tackle the tasks with the most uncertainty first.

Slice wisely. Rather than slicing by technical layers (for example, creating one
task for front-end work and another for back-end work), use slices that make
business sense and provide value (i.e., the minimum viable feature). This
enables shorter feedback loops and reduces integration problems.

If using a pull-requests-based workflow, break the rule of one feature = one
(often giant) pull request. Use stacked pull requests to generate small
reviewable units.

[Defer commitment]

[Baby steps]
